The other key player in our front-end toolchain is Sass.
Sass provides a superset of CSS features, as I said.
If you write just plain CSS, that is also a valid Sass or SCSS style sheet,
but it provides a lot more functionality that --- I'm sorry
Browserify --- up in the chat James actually corrected me.
The Browserify stuff in this project is largely --- is in the Gruntfile,
but some of the transform configuration is in the package.
json.
So some of the Browserify transforms expect to find
their configuration in package.
json, which is why that's there.
But the transformations are actually configured in the Gruntfile,
I think, in this instance.
Thank you for the clarification there.
Alright, so in terms of Sass,
we have --- it gives us the ability to better modularize our CSS essentially.
It allows us to write our CSS like we would write our code.
So,
in our code we wouldn't write the same thing over and over
and over again for different classes,
but in CSS that's essentially what you have to do.
If you want to use --- you'll find that you're using the font
family declaration for multiple elements,
and it's possible to write CSS such that you don't repeat yourself a lot,
but invariably you end up doing that.
So Sass provides the ability to create things called mixins,
which allows you to have better modularization in your JavaScript code,
or in your, excuse me, your Sass code.
So you can essentially integrate sets of functionality into your CSS and
like sort of reuse those mixins all across your Sass code.
The other bit that it allows you to do is to specify variables and import
external Sass style sheets basically anywhere within your Sass.
Both are fairly critical features,
especially like when you're talking about colors and
other sort of sitewide design elements.
Being able to assign those to variables that you can use in multiple
places and then change once and then watch those changes propagate
everywhere in your styles ends up being pretty clutch.
Sass also comes with a fast C-based compiler,
so it's fairly performant when you're actually
compiling those style sheets as well.
Can you talk a little bit about advantages or disadvantages of Sass over LESS?
Yeah, I mean actually that's a --- we'll just skip ahead just a little bit.
So it's fairly interchangeable with LESS in terms of style.
I think it comes down to preference largely.
Sass is cross-platform.
I think LESS is Node.
js only, if I'm not mistaken.
You can probably use it everywhere.
I'm sure it'll work just fine with other environments as well, but yeah.
I'm going to extend that question.
Why wouldn't you use something like Bootstrap 3 and
jQuery UI for some of this stuff?
So those tools,
like the question if you didn't hear it was why wouldn't you
Bootstrap 3 or jQuery UI for stuff like this?
And those tools actually serve a slightly different purpose.
So like jQuery UI does provide a set of CSS classes that you
can apply to objects to make them look nice and turn into
drop-downs and stuff like that.
But for authoring your own styles for your own components,
you probably will be authoring CSS from scratch anyway,
and Bootstrap and jQuery UI help with some prebuilt
classes that you can use for grids,
and those tools work really well with Sass or LESS.
In fact, Bootstrap, one of the things that you can do if you're using Sass,
and I know at one point they had LESS styles as well,
but I feel like at maybe at one point they converted to Sass.
I'll have to check on that specifically.
But if you actually download the Bootstrap Sass files,
you could import them into your own styles and use only the parts of the
Bootstrap styles that you're actually like leveraging in your application
and which ends up being a little lighter weight than including a larger
package that you didn't customize.
There are also similar to Bootstrap is a framework called UIkit,
which I would definitely recommend you check out,
which provides a set of Sass,
like Sass mixins and other bits that you can actually
include in your own CSS to create like CSS3
transformations and useful things like that.
So it provides useful mixins, responsive breakpoints, and stuff like that.
Thank you.
Yep, no problem.
But yeah, so LESS serves largely the same purpose,
and it's fairly interchangeable.
At this point, it's --- for me, it's more a preference thing.
I like Sass a little better.
And webpack, as long we're here on the alternate tip,
is --- also provides like module bundling functionality
based on the new ECMAScript module system.
It also provides some other module bundling features and functionality,
also fully legit, also has a growing set of plugins.
And I think at this point, like because Browserify has been around longer,
I think it has a richer set of transformations and plugins
that can be brought to bear using Browserify,
but webpack has a large and thriving community of plugin developers as well. So again, fully a valid choice if you want to go in that direction.